#Vim JavaScript Context Coloring

##Description

This is a plugin for the Vim text editor to highlight JavaScript code 
according to its scope. This was inspired by an idea by Douglas Crockford
in his [presentation](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dkZFtimgAcM) at YUIConf 2012.
(See from around the 16 minute mark onwards.) 

##Other implementations
See [this discussion on Google Plus](https://plus.google.com/118095276221607585885/posts/FzKnHk96m2C)
for information on other implementations.

##Usage

When the `JSContextColor` command is executed, the current buffer is colorized
according to the scope of the code. By default this will happen when a JavaScript
file is loaded, and whenever the file is changed. If you disable the plugin (see below),
you could arrange to call the `JSContextColor` command in response to a keymap of
your choice. Here is a summary of the commands available:

##Commands

    JSContextColor
    JSContextColorToggle
    JSContextColorUpdate

##Global Variables

    g:js_context_colors_enabled
    g:js_context_colors
    g:js_context_colors_insertmode
    g:js_context_colors_usemaps
    g:js_context_colors_colorize_comments
    g:js_context_colors_comment_higroup
    g:js_context_colors_debug
    g:js_context_colors_highlight_function_names
    g:js_context_colors_es5
    g:js_context_colors_block_scope
    g:js_context_colors_block_scope_with_let
    g:js_context_colors_jsx
    g:js_context_colors_fold
    g:js_context_colors_folding
    g:js_context_colors_allow_jsx_syntax

##Requirements

* The plugin relies on [NodeJS](http://nodejs.org/) being installed, preferably > 0.10.

* UNIX-like environment. The command line script which runs jslint in Node to obtain the coloring data 
requires a Unix-like environment to work. This means it's probably not going to work
on Windows, unless inside Cygwin or something like that. 

* Vim version: 7.4 recommended, however it also works now on 7.3. Untested on earlier versions. 

##Installation

### Using Pathogen.

0. Install [Pathogen](https://github.com/tpope/vim-pathogen)

1. Clone the repo from GitHub into your 'bundle' directory:

    git clone git@github.com:bigfish/vim-js-context-coloring.git

2. Run this command in the repo dir to install required node modules:

    npm install

3. Install docs (in Vim):

    :Helptags

### Using NeoBundle.

0. Install [NeoBundle](https://github.com/Shougo/neobundle.vim#quick-start)

1. Add the following to your `vimrc`:

```VimL
NeoBundle 'bigfish/vim-js-context-coloring', {
  \ 'build' : {
  \     'mac' : 'npm install --update',
  \     'unix' : 'npm install --update',
  \    },
  \ }
```

2. Close & re-open Vim.

##Configuration

By default the plugin is enabled for all .js files. The highlighting will be applied
whenever a change is made to the text, whether in Normal or Insert mode. Note that it
will only be done *after* Insert mode is exited (back to Normal mode) so it will not 
update as you type.

###Colors

The default colors for JavaScript scope levels are:

1:white, 2:green, 3: yellow 4:blue, 5:red, 6:cyan, 7:grey.

The highlighting is now handled by a colorscheme file, in standard vim colorscheme format.
If you're upgrading from a previous version of the plugin (<= 0.6), you will need to 
reconfigure your colors by copying the 'jscc_colors.vim' colorscheme file from the
plugin's /colors directory, to your VIMRUNTIME/colors directory (create if necessary). 
On unix this will be ~/.vim/colors.  Make sure the name is still the same.
Then you can make modifications to the highlight groups in the file as you wish.
See ':help highlight-args' or look at other colorschemes for guidance. 
You may add additional levels if you wish. 

The special syntax group 'JSCC_UndeclaredGlobal' targets undeclared global
variables, in order to distinguish them from global variables which were
declared in the current file. If you don't want to distinguish these, just set
this group to the same highlighting as JSCC_Level_0.

You may use the [XtermColorTable](http://www.vim.org/scripts/script.php?script_id=3412) plugin to see what colors are available

Note that the color changes will not take effect immediately. To update the colors, you
can use the `:JSContextColorUpdate` command.

###256 Color Support

####Linux

Ubuntu (and I suspect most modern distros?) do support 256 colors by default, but Vim does not know this
as the $TERM environment is set to 'xterm' by default and Vim does not think that the terminal can support 
256 colors and does not even try. This can be remedied by adding the following line to your .bashrc:

   [ -z "$TMUX" ] && export TERM=xterm-256color

This will set the $TERM environment variable to `xterm-256colr` unless we are using tmux (which sets its own $TERM value and should allow the plugin to work).

####Mac OS X

Terminal.app does not support 256 colors in Snow Leopard and older. If you have Snow Leopard you can use iTerm2
 to enable 256 color support. If you have a newer OSX you should be OK but the $TERM variable must still be 
 set to 'xterm-256color'. Apparently this is default in Lion, and more recent versions, so that it should just work.

###Comments

By default, comments are not colorized, but set to a middle grey color. If
you want to colorize comments as well, do this:

	let g:js_context_colors_colorize_comments = 1

If you want to use a custom highlight group for comments, define the group,
and then assign it to the `g:js_context_colors_comment_higroup`, eg:

	highlight MyComment ctermfg=red
	let g:js_context_colors_comment_higroup = 'MyComment'

Or to use the comment syntax highlighting from your colorscheme:

	let g:js_context_colors_comment_higroup = 'Comment'

This will only take effect if the `g:js_context_colors_colorize_comments` option
is not set to 1.

### Highlighting Function names

Setting the `g:js_context_colors_highlight_function_names` option to 1 will
highlight declared function names with the parent scope level color, to
indicate that the name was exported to the container scope. 

###ES6 Support

The plugin now supports ES6 code. Arrow functions will be highlighted.
If you also want to highlight block scopes, you can set the `g:js_context_colors_block_scope`
option, but be aware this will also affect ES3/5 code if you open it. So you can 
use the `g:js_context_colors_block_scope_with_let` option, to only highlight
blocks with let variables.

##ES5 only mode

If you only want to support ES5 syntax, you can set the `g:js_context_colors_es5` option

### JSX support
 
Set the `g:js_context_colors_jsx` option to 1 to support JSX (and ES6). If the file extension
is .jsx this will be automatically turned on. 

If you want JXS syntax to be used, overriding the scope colors, set
`g:js_context_colors_allow_jsx_syntax` to 1. The vim-jsx or equivalent syntax must be
loaded *after* this plugin.

### Folding

The foldmethod is set to syntax by default, so if you do 'zc' to close the current fold,
it will fold the current function. ('zo' opens it again). If `g:js_context_colors_block_scope`
is set, it will fold the current block. There is another option to automatically fold functions
after a certain depth of nesting, which is 9 by default. The option that controls this is
`g:js_context_colors_foldlevel`. Set to a lower number to fold sooner, or a higher to avoid folding 
if you don't want auto folding. To not set foldmethod to syntax, and disable autofolding,
set the `g:js_context_colors_foldlevel` to 0.

###Error Message
When the plugin fails to get a valid response from the parser script, it
will show an error... it will also not highlight. This is most likely a syntax error,
but it could also be a problem with the CLI script (perhaps it was not installed).
To stop annoying users, however it is now suppressed by default.

But it can be re-enabled with this option:

	let g:js_context_colors_show_error_message = 1

###Disabling

The plugin is enabled by default. To disable it, set the `g:js_context_colors_enabled` variable
to 0, in your .vimrc file.

###Mappings

By default, <localleader>h is mapped to the `JSContextColor` command.
By default, <localleader>t is mapped to the `JSContextColorToggle` command.

These are local to the buffer. They can be disabled by setting the `g:js_context_colors_usemaps` variable to 0.

###NeoVim 

This plugin has a [Neovim](https://neovim.io/) specific version, on the 'neovim' branch.

if you're new to neovim, [this](https://neovim.io/doc/user/nvim_from_vim.html) has helpful info on 
configuring nvim to use your existing vim config. 

The advantage of the nvim fork is that the scope-analysis is done in a different thread than (n)vim,
so it does not block input. This makes vim more responsive while using this plugin, especially when editing larger js files. 
Also, since the node code is running continually in the background, it will become compiled and thus faster.

####Setup

* Check out the neovim branch, and install node modules:

    cd vim-js-context-colors
    git fetch -a 
    git checkout neovim
    cd rplugin/node 
    npm install

* The neovim version of my plugin depends on the [node-host nvim plugin](https://github.com/neovim/node-host)
So this must be installed as well (eg. using Vundle:)

    if has('nvim')
      Plugin 'neovim/node-host'
    endif

* You also need to do `npm install` inside the node-host repo as well..

* When you run nvim, you also need to do 

  :UpdateRemotePlugins
  
command, and then restart nvim. AFAIK, this only needs to be done the first time, or after updating the plugin.

* You may sometimes notice the js code appears with default highlighting for a split second.. this is a side effect of 
the asynchronous nature of the plugin. It is more noticable on the Mac for some reason, than on Linux, and for the first file
after starting the computer, as the node-host runtime has to startup. After that it shouldn't be noticable.


##License

MIT -- see LICENSE file
